Tool: terminal
Result:
PYTHONPATH=/tmp/pyenv python3 -c "
from pypdf import PdfReader
r = PdfReader('/app/workspace/data/format.pdf')
for i, p in enumerate(r.pages):
    print(f'=== page {i} ===')
    print(p.extract_text())
" 2>&1 | sed -n '1,500p'
=== page 0 ===
Google cluster-usage traces: format + 
schema 
Charles Reiss, John Wilkes, Joseph Hellerstein 
Version of 2013-05-06, for trace version 2.  Revised 2014-11-17 for trace version 2.1. 
Status: exported outside Google. 
Copyright © 2011 Google Inc. All rights reserved. 

Table of contents 
Introduction 
Common techniques and fields 
Obfuscation techniques 
Time and timestamps 
Unique identifiers 
User and job names 
Resource units 
Data tables 
Machines 
Machine events 
Machine attributes 
Jobs and tasks 
Job and task life cycles and event types 
Missing event records 
Job events table 
Task events table 
Task constraints 
Resource usage 
File format 
Downloading the data 
Anomalies 
Data collection 
Missing information 
Appendices 
Document history 
Introduction 
This document describes the semantics, data format, and schema of usage traces of a 
Google compute cell.  This document describes version 2.1 of the trace format, and should 
be read in conjunction with the detailed information provided with a trace. 

A Google ​cluster​ is a set of machines, packed into racks, and connected by a 
high-bandwidth cluster network.  A ​cell​ is a set of machines, typically all in a single cluster, 
that share a common cluster-management management system that allocates work to 
machines.  Work arrives at a cell in the form of ​jobs​. A job is comprised of one or more 
tasks​, each of which is accompanied by a set of resource requirements used for scheduling 
(packing) the tasks onto machines. Each task represents a Linux program, possibly 
consisting of multiple processes, to be run on a single machine. Tasks and jobs are 
scheduled onto machines according to the lifecycle described below. Resource requirements 
and usage data for tasks are derived from information provided by the cell's management 
system and the individual machines in the cell. 

A single usage trace typically describes several days of the workload on one of these 
1 
=== page 1 ===
compute cells. A trace is made up of several ​datasets​. A dataset contains a single ​table​, 
indexed by a primary key that typically includes a timestamp. Each dataset is packaged as a 
set of one or more files, each provided in a compressed CSV format. (See ​below​ for the 
details.) 

One of our goals in publishing this trace data is to make visible many of the scheduling 
complexities that affect Google’s workload, including the variety of job types, complex 
scheduling constraints on some jobs, mixed hardware types, and user mis-estimation of 
resource consumption.  We hope that researchers will find it useful. 
Common techniques and fields 
This section describes the representation and semantics of fields that occur in several 
tables. Note that a trace may not include all the types of data described here. 
Obfuscation techniques 
For confidentiality reasons, we have obfuscated certain information in the trace. In 
particular, most free-text fields have been randomly hashed, resource sizes have been 
linearly transformed (scaled), and certain values have been mapped onto a sorted series. 
We took care to do this in a consistent way so that the data can still be used in research 
studies. 

Here are the obfuscation transformations that are used for most data types: 
● unchanged​: the values are not obfuscated. 
● hashed​: each value is transformed to an opaque value by means of a keyed 
cryptographic hash. 
● ordered​: the list of observed (or possible) values is generated and sorted. Then, the 
items in this list are assigned sequential numbers starting with 0 (i.e., gaps are 
elided), and the observed values are mapped onto these numbers before adding 
them to the trace. 
● rescaled​: each value is transformed by dividing by the maximum value that appears 
anywhere in the trace for that measurement. For example, the maximum observed 
memory capacity across all machines is used to rescale all memory requests and 
usage values.  (The maximum is used to guarantee no dividing by zero and that no 
extra information leaks into the result.) This value is then rounded to a granularity of 
max(1.0/2​10​, max_value/2​20​)​ - i.e., no more than ten bits of binary precision or ~1 
millionth of the maximum value, whichever is larger.  Almost all floating point values 
are transformed in this way. 
● special​: a few values are treated in a special way. 
Time and timestamps 
Each record has a timestamp, which is in microseconds since 600 seconds before the 
beginning of the trace period, and recorded as a 64 bit integer (i.e., an event 20 seconds 
after the start of the trace would have a timestamp=620s).  

Additionally, there are two special time values representing events that did not occur within 
the trace window: 
● A time of 0 represents events that occurred before the beginning of the trace 
window. Examples: machines that existed at the start of the trace; a task or job that 
was submitted (or has already been scheduled) before start of the the trace.  
2 
=== page 2 ===
● A time of 2​63​-1 (MAXINT) represents events that occur after the end of the trace 
window  (e.g., if there is a data collection failure near the end of the trace window). 



Mapping of original times to times emitted in the trace. 

As an exception, times in usage measurements are treated slightly differently, because the 
the maximum measurement length is 300 seconds.  We apply the same start-time offset to 
these times as we do for events inside the trace window; this is enough to ensure a clear 
separation between events before the trace and other events. Note that a measurement 
interval may overlap the beginning or end of the trace.  Additionally, the best available 
precision for usage measurements is to the nearest second; we still report these times in 
microseconds for consistency. 

Timestamps are approximate, although reasonably accurate. They are sourced from multiple 
machines, and so small disagreements in timestamps may reflect clock drift between 
machines in the cluster instead of any real scheduling or utilization issue.  
Unique identifiers 
Every job and every machine is assigned a unique 64-bit identifier. These IDs are never 
reused; however, machine IDs may stay the same when a machine is removed from the 
cluster and returned. Very rarely, job IDs may stay the same when the same job is stopped, 
reconfigured and restarted. (We are aware of only one such example in our first trace. 
Usually, restarting a job will generate a new job ID but keep the same job name and user 
name.) 

Tasks are identified by the job ID of their job and a 0-based index within the job. Tasks with 
the same job ID and task index can be (and frequently are) stopped and be restarted 
without assigning a new job ID or index. 
User and job names 
User and job names are hashed and provided as opaque base64-encoded strings that can 
be tested for equality. 

The ​logical job name​ is a heuristically normalized name of the job that combines data from 
several internal name fields, and hashes the result to construct an opaque base64-encoded 
string (e.g., most numbers in the logical name are replaced with a fixed string). In cases 
where unique job names are generated to avoid conflicts, job names generated by different 
executions of the same program will usually have the same logical name. MapReduce is an 
3 
=== page 3 ===
example of a Google system that frequently generates unique job names. 

Usernames in this trace represent Google engineers and services. Production jobs run by 
the same username are likely to be part of the same external or internal service. Whenever 
a single program runs multiple jobs (for example, a MapReduce program spawns both a 
master job and worker job), those jobs will almost always run as the same user. 
Resource units 
Most resource utilization measurements and requests have been normalized, including: 
● CPU (core count or core-seconds/second) 
● memory (bytes) 
● disk space (bytes) 
● disk time fraction (I/O seconds/second) 

For each of the foregoing, we compute separate normalizations. The normalization is a 
scaling relative to the largest capacity of the resource on any machine in the trace (which is 
1.0). This is true even for disk space and disk time fraction for which we do not provide 
individual machine capacities in this version. 
Data tables 
Below we describe the tables that will be provided. Table keys are ​italicized​; note that some 
keys are constructed from multiple fields.  Reminder: not all traces will include all the types 
of data described here.  ​The columns might occur in a different order, or have 
different names than reported here: the definitive specification of such details can 
be found in the ​schema.csv​ file​. 
Machines 
Machines are described by two tables: the ​machine events table ​and the ​machine attributes 
table​. 
Machine events 
Each machine is described by one or more records in the machine event table.  The majority 
of records describe machines that existed at the start of the trace. 

Machine events table: 
1. timestamp 
2. machine ID 
3. event type 
4. platform ID 
5. capacity: CPU 
6. capacity: memory 

There are three types of machine events: 
● ADD (0): a machine became available to the cluster - all machines in the trace will 
have an ADD event. 
● REMOVE (1): a machine was removed from the cluster. Removals can occur due to 
failures or maintenance. 
● UPDATE (2): a machine available to the cluster had its available resources changed. 

4 
=== page 4 ===
Machine capacities reflect the normalized physical capacity of each machine along each 
dimension. Each dimension (CPU cores, RAM size) is normalized independently.  Note that 
not all of this capacity is available to tasks; for example, the cluster scheduler needs to 
reserve some resources for itself and the operating system. 

The platform ID is an opaque string representing the microarchitecture and chipset version 
of the machine. Different combinations of micro-architectures (e.g. vendor chip code-names 
like Nehalem or Bulldozer) and memory technologies (e.g. DDR2 versus DDR) will result in 
different platform IDs. Two machines with the same platform ID may have substantially 
different clock rates, memory speeds, core counts, etc. 
Machine attributes 
Machine attributes table: 
1. timestamp 
2. machine ID 
3. attribute name:​ an opaque string 
4. attribute value: either an opaque string or an integer 
5. attribute deleted: a boolean indicating whether the attribute was deleted 

Machine attributes are key-value pairs representing machine properties, such as kernel 
version, clock speed, presence of an external IP address. Tasks can specify constraints on 
machine attributes. 

Machine attribute values are provided as integers if there are a small number of values for 
that attribute name or as obscured strings otherwise. In the first case, the values of the 
attributes observed across all machines are recorded and sorted (in numerical order, if all 
are numbers).  The first value is mapped to 1, the second to 2, and so on. This strategy is 
the same as used in a ​prior Google publication​ of some related data.  Some attributes have 1
no associated values because their presence or absence is the signal (e.g., whether a 
machine runs a GFS chunkserver); these attributes are given the value 1 if present. 
Jobs and tasks 
Jobs and tasks are described by these tables: 
● Job events table 
● Task events table 
● Task constraints table 

The two event tables describe jobs/tasks and their lifecycles.  The constraints table 
describes task placement constraints that restrict the machines onto which tasks can 
schedule. 

Usually all tasks within a job execute exactly the same binary with the same options and 
resource request. Programs that need to run different types of tasks with different resource 
requirements usually execute as multiple jobs. For example, MapReduce runs masters and 
workers in separate jobs. 
Job and task life cycles and event types 
1 ​“Modeling and Synthesizing Task Placement Constraints in Google Compute Clusters”, Victor 
Chudnovsky, Rasekh Rifaat, Joseph Hellerstein, Bikash Sharma, Chita Das, Symposium on Cloud 
Computing (SoCC), Oct. 2011. 
5 
=== page 5 ===

State transitions for jobs and tasks. 

The diagram above shows a simplified model of the states through which a job or task 
progresses.  Job and task events indicate transitions between these states. 

There are basically two types of events: ones that affect the scheduling state (e.g., a job is 
submitted, or it gets scheduled and becomes runnable, or its resource requests are 
updated), and ones that reflect state changes of a task (e.g., the task exits).  

Each job and task event has a value representing the type of event. The state of the job or 
task after the event can always be determined from this event type. For job or task deaths, 
the event type also contains information about the cause of the death.  Here are the event 
(transition) codes: 

● SUBMIT (0): A task or job became eligible for scheduling. 
● SCHEDULE (1): A job or task was scheduled on a machine. (It may not start running 
immediately due to code-shipping time, etc.) For jobs, this occurs the first time ​any 
task of the job is scheduled on a machine. 
● EVICT(2): A task or job was descheduled because of a higher priority task or job, 
because the scheduler overcommitted and the actual demand exceeded the machine 
capacity, because the machine on which it was running became unusable (e.g. taken 
offline for repairs), or because a disk holding the task’s data was lost. 
● FAIL(3): A task or job was descheduled (or, in rare cases, ceased to be eligible for 
scheduling while it was pending) due to a task failure. 
● FINISH(4): A task or job completed normally. 
● KILL(5): A task or job was cancelled by the user or a driver program or because 
another job or task on which this job was dependent died. 
● LOST(6): A task or job was presumably terminated, but a record indicating its 
termination was missing from our source data. 
● UPDATE_PENDING(7): A task or job’s scheduling class, resource requirements, or 
constraints were updated while it was waiting to be scheduled. 
● UPDATE_RUNNING(8): A task or job’s scheduling class, resource requirements, or 
constraints were updated while it was scheduled​. 

The simplest case is shown by the top path in the diagram above: a job is SUBMITted and 
gets put into a pending queue; soon afterwards, it is SCHEDULEd onto a machine and starts 
running; some time later it FINISHes successfully. 

If a task or job that has just EVICTed, FAILed, or KILLed remains runnable, a SUBMIT event 
will appear immediately after the descheduling events. (I.e., the system tries to restart jobs 
and tasks that have failed.)  The actual policy about how many times tasks can be 
rescheduled in spite of non-normal termination varies between jobs. For example, though 
6 
=== page 6 ===
rare, it is possible for some tasks to be indefinitely descheduled after an EVICT event that 
was caused by the scheduler not giving the task its requested memory. 

The trace may contain both SUBMIT and SCHEDULE events for the exact same microsecond 
for a job or task. This means that a job or task was submitted and immediately scheduled, 
or, if the timestamp on the events is 0, that the job or task was submitted and scheduled 
before the trace began. 

Unfortunately, we are not able to precisely determine the cause of all task deaths; where we 
are uncertain, we map this to a KILL event, which also includes cases where an external 
program or a developer took explicit action to terminate it. There is no information about 
whether a job or task was executing normally in either case. 

Note that this is a simplified version of the scheduling system we actually employ, and a few 
of the more sophisticated features have been been mapped down into this model. We do not 
believe that any significant fidelity has been lost in this process from the point of view of 
resource-scheduling research. 
Missing event records 
Our data sources contain both time-series of job and task changes and periodic snapshots of 
job and task state, so we are able to check for consistency between them. When it seems 
we are missing an event record, we synthesize a replacement.  Similarly, we look for a 
record of every job or task that is active at the end of the trace time window, and 
synthesize a missing record if we don't find one. 

Synthesized records have a number (called the “missing info” field) to represent why they 
were added to the trace: 
● SNAPSHOT_BUT_NO_TRANSITION (0): we did not find a record representing the 
given event, but a later snapshot of the job or task state indicated that the transition 
must have occurred. The timestamp of the synthesized event is the timestamp of the 
snapshot. 
● NO_SNAPSHOT_OR_TRANSITION (1): we did not find a record representing the 
given termination event, but the job or task disappeared from later snapshots of 
cluster states, so it must have been terminated. The timestamp of the synthesized 
event is a pessimistic upper bound on its actual termination time assuming it could 
have legitimately been missing from one snapshot. 
● EXISTS_BUT_NO_CREATION (2): we did not find a record representing the creation 
of the given task or job. In this case, we may be missing metadata (job name, 
resource requests, etc.) about the job or task and we may have placed SCHEDULE or 
SUBMIT events latter than they actually are. 

Records without missing data have no value (empty string) in the “missing info” field. 
Job events table 
The job events table contains the following fields: 
1. timestamp 
2. missing info 
3. job ID 
4. event type 
5. user name 
6. scheduling class 
7. job name 
8. logical job name 
7 
=== page 7 ===

The job/task event tables include any jobs that are active (RUNNING) or eligible to run but 
waiting to be scheduled (PENDING) at any point in the trace. For every job in the trace, we 
will include at least one record for all its tasks, which will include its scheduling constraints.  

All jobs and tasks have a ​scheduling class​ that roughly represents how latency-sensitive it 
is. The scheduling class is represented by a single number, with 3 representing a more 
latency-sensitive task (e.g., serving revenue-generating user requests) and 0 representing a 
non-production task (e.g., development, non-business-critical analyses, etc.).  Note that 
scheduling class is ​not​ a priority, although more latency-sensitive tasks tend to have higher 
task priorities. Scheduling class affects machine-local policy for resource access. Priority 
determines whether a task is scheduled on a machine. 

The ​job name​ is hashed and provided as opaque base64-encoded strings that can be tested 
for equality.  Unique job names are sometimes generated by automated systems to avoid 
conflicts.  (MapReduce is an example of a Google system that does this.) 

The ​logical job name​ is an opaque name that combines data from several internal name 
fields (e.g., most numbers in the logical name are replaced with a fixed string). Logical job 
names partially compensate for the unique job names generated by automatic tools; in this 
case, different executions of the same program will usually have the same logical name. 
Task events table 
The task events table contains the following fields: 
1. timestamp 
2. missing info 
3. job ID 
4. task index​ - within the job 
5. machine ID 
6. event type 
7. user name 
8. scheduling class 
9. priority 
10.resource request for CPU cores 
11.resource request for RAM 
12.resource request for local disk space 
13.different-machine constraint 

The machineID, if present, indicates the machine onto which the task was scheduled. 

Each task has a ​priority, ​a small integer that is mapped here into a sorted set of values, 
with 0 as the lowest priority (least important). Tasks with larger priority numbers generally 
get preference for resources over tasks with smaller priority numbers. 

There are some special priority ranges: 
● “free” priorities: these are the lowest priorities. Resources requested at these 
priorities incur little internal charging. 
● “production” priorities: these are the highest priorities. The cluster scheduler 
attempts to prevent latency-sensitive tasks at these priorities from being evicted due 
to over-allocation of machine resources. 
● “monitoring” priorities: these priorities are intended for jobs which monitor the 
health of other, lower-priority jobs 
We may indicate which priority ranges represent which categories in the documentation for 
8 
=== page 8 ===
each trace; since we normalize the provided priorities, these ranges may differ between 
releases. 

If the ​different-machine constraint​ field is present, and true, it indicates that a task must be 
scheduled to execute on a different machine than any other currently running task in the 
job.  It is a special type of constraint. 

The resource requests represent the maximum amount of CPU, memory, or disk space a 
task is permitted to use (we call this its ​limit​). Tasks using more than their limit may be 
throttled (for resources like CPU) or killed (for resources like memory).  Note that the 
scheduler may over-commit resources on a machine.  As a result, it can happen that there 
are not enough resources to meet all the runtime requests from the tasks, even though 
each of them is using less than its limit.  If this happens, one or more low priority task(s) 
may be killed. 

Additionally, the runtime environment sometimes permits tasks to use more than their 
request. For example, tasks are permitted to use free CPU capacity on the machine, so 
tasks with brief latency-insensitive CPU bursts might usefully run with a requested CPU 
allocation of 0. 

This trace includes some jobs that support a Google distributed filesystem, but which do ​not 
request disk space for the file system’s persistent storage via the cluster scheduler - they 
rely on an external allocation mechanism.  These resource requests and usage are not 
included in the trace data. 
Task constraints 
A task may have zero or more task placement constraints, which restrict the machines on 
which the task can run. Each constraint record corresponds to exactly one task event 
record. (If a task is updated only by updating the machine constraints, then there will be a 
task event record indicating an update.) There may be multiple constraints on a single 
attribute, for example an attribute may have both a less than and a greater than constraint 
for a single task. 

The task constraints table contains the following fields: 
1. timestamp 
2. job ID 
3. task index 
4. attribute name ​-- corresponds to machine attribute table 
5. attribute value -- either an opaque string or an integer or the empty string 
6. comparison operator 

The comparison operators are: 
● LESS THAN (2), GREATER THAN (3): Represent the machine attribute as an integer 
(or 0 if the attribute is not present), then compare it to the supplied attribute value. 
These comparisons are ​strictly less than​ and ​strictly greater than​; 
● EQUAL (0), NOT EQUAL (1): Represent the machine attribute as a string (or as the 
empty string if it is not present), then compare it to the supplied attribute value; 
Resource usage 
Our clusters uses Linux containers for resource isolation and usage accounting. Each task 
runs within its own container and may create multiple processes in that container. 
9 
=== page 9 ===

We report usage values from each measurement period, which is typically 5 minutes (300s), 
although some measurement records span a shorter time, typically because the task is 
updated within that time period. When a task is killed, the measurement time period may 
extend for up to tens of seconds beyond when the task was terminated, and a few 
measurement records extend a few minutes after the time the task was terminated. 

Within each measurement period, measurements are usually taken at 1 second intervals, 
although system load sometimes prevents the resource information from being sampled at 
the desired rate, so a measurement may span more than 1 second. To assist in identifying 
these cases, we provide the ​sample portion​ (aka ​sampling rate​) which is the ratio between 
the number of expected samples (e.g., 300 for a 300 s measurement window) to the 
number of observed samples. 

The 1 second samples are aggregated over the length of each measurement period to 
provide a mean value for the measurement period as well as the maximum value seen in 
any 1 second sample in that period. 

In some cases, the aggregate value for the container is constructed from measurements 
obtained from multiple sub-containers: although we know the maximum usage for each 
subcontainer, our measurement system may not report the true maximum of the outer 
container. In this case, the maximum value we report is the sum of the maximum values 
from the subcontainers, and records with maximum usage aggregated in this manner will be 
marked with an ​aggregation type​ marker of 1; all other records will have an aggregation 
type of 0.  Additionally, we may not have maximum values for all of the sub-containers 
(e.g., if they are small and/or short-lived), even though the average usage measurement 
includes their usage.  

Measurement records may be missing. Missing records do not necessarily indicate that a 
task was not running. 

There are some task usage measurements for periods when no process belonging to the 
task was running in the task’s container. For example, these measurements might occur 
while binaries are being copied to the machine. In this case, memory, CPU, and disk usage 
for a task may legitimately be 0. In some cases, a task may run with no process for an 
extended period of time. 

The task resource usage table contains these fields: 
1. start time​ of the measurement period 
2. end time​ of the measurement period 
3. job ID 
4. task index 
5. machine ID 
6. mean CPU usage rate 
7. canonical memory usage 
8. assigned memory usage 
9. unmapped page cache memory usage 
10.total page cache memory usage 
11.maximum memory usage 
12.mean disk I/O time 
13.mean local disk space used 
14.maximum CPU usage 
15.maximum disk IO time 
16.cycles per instruction (CPI) 
10 
=== page 10 ===

17.memory accesses per instruction (MAI) 
18.sample portion 
19.aggregation type (1 if maximums from subcontainers were summed) 


📁 Working directory: /app/workspace
✅ Exit code: 0