Tool: terminal
Result:
maintain constant heat flux to the product, it is critical 
that both these variables are controlled. Research, Inc.’s 
MICRI-FLO XG forced convection reflow system will 
be used as an example. The temperature and flow control 
are defined specific to this system. 
CONVECTION OVEN DESCRIPTION 
Temperature control of the system must consider both 
the gas and the surrounding wall temperature. Remem- 
ber, even in a convection dominant heating system, the 
walls radiate IR energy worth about 20%-30% of the 
total heat flux of the system. The figure below shows 
the heater cavity flow diagram for the MICRI-FLO XG. 
The reflow and dryout zones each receive input gas 
(air or nitrogen) through a series of flow meters. This 
controlled flow enters a diffusion plenum behind the 
heating plenum to distribute the flow. The flow then 
enters a second plenum, where the gas is preheated by a 
series of heaters. The heaters consist of a wound nickel- 
chromium wire encased in a stainless steel jacket. The 
GAS FLOW INPUT FROM 
AIR OR NITROGEN SOURCE 
II 4 Y 
GAS FLOW INPUT FROM AIR OR NITROGEN SOURCE 
heaters are bent in a “U” shape such that easy removal 
can occur from one side of the machine. The gas then 
enters the process chamber through an array of holes. 
The product is heated from a combination of the hot gas 
and the hot chamber surroundings. A control thermo- 
couple is mounted in each zone to maintain cavity 
repeatability. A PID (Proportional - Integral - Deriva- 
tive) control loop is used to maintain the cavity at 
constant conditions. 
The flow is removed from the reflow area by two exhaust 
ducts located on each side of the reflow zone. This flow 
is pulled from the zones using a high temperature, low 
flow recirculating blower. The flow is pushed by the 
blower through the preheater plenum arrangement. The 
temperature control is accomplished in the same way as 
the dryout and reflow zone. 
The flow that heats the product (in all zones) is forced 
through the walls in an array of holes to break up the 
boundary layers on the product. The perpendicular flow 
arrangement shown on page 8 is used to optimize heat 
transfer. 
Convection oven thermal control requires tight 
control of two variables; temperature andflow. 
In order to maintain constant heat flux to the 
product, it is critical that both these variables 
are controlled. 
Section I11 - Research, Inc. Equipment Technology 15 
--- PAGE 17 ---
CONVECTION OVEN WITH 
Convection ovens are a greater challenge to inert for 
several reasons. First, the amount of flow that would be 
required to transfer 80% of the energy by convection is 
extremely high, and cost prohibitive. In order to mini- 
mize this, recirculation ducts are added, which result in 
the degradation of the purity of the source flow entering 
a given zone. Higher velocities and turbulent flow are 
also required, which can result in a greater opportunity 
for oxygen to enter the system. Third, the pressure in the 
heater cavity is positive in some areas, and negative in 
others. Balancing this flow becomes adifficult task. The 
job of inerting a convection oven is not impossible. 
However, it should be noted that purity levels and flow 
rates are less optimum than with an IR based machine. 
CHAMBER DESCRIPTION 
Many of the same principles apply for inerting when 
comparing a convection oven to an IR oven. The MZCRZ- 
FLO XG convection oven shown below utilizes a very 
similar scheme to the 4470XN IR oven. The gas is 
brought into each zone very uniformly using the propri- 
VITROGEN ATMOSPHERE 
etary gas plenum distribution system. The pressure in the 
entry and exit purge sections are maintained at sufficient 
levels to minimize oxygen infiltration. Flow meter 
controlled venturi exhausts are used to balance the flow 
in the system and to remove process volatiles. 
In order to maintain the best purity levels in the zones 
where the product temperature is greater than 150°C, 
pure nitrogen is delivered to the reflow and dryout 
zone. This is a key point, as this ensures that the product 
experiences a nearly pure environment at its most criti- 
cal stages (dryout and reflow). The recirculated gas 
from these zones is reheated and used in the preheat zone. 
Here, purity is not as critical, so the use of recirculated 
gas is not detrimental to the process. 
Purity levels in the dryout and reflow zone can be 
maintained at 35 PPM over incoming purity levels at 
flow rates of 1800 cubic feet per hour (5 1 cubic meters 
per hour). 
GAS FLOW 
INPUT FROM 
N2 OR AIR 
SOURCE 
GAS FLOW 
INPUT FROM 
N2 OR AIR 
SOURCE 
16 Section I11 - Research, Inc. Equipment Technology 
--- PAGE 18 ---
IR/CONVECTION OVEN CLOSED LOOP CONTROL 
One of the key oven performance issues is the ability to 
repeat a product temperature profile. Repeatability is 
influenced most by product loading. Heavy or non- 
variable loading can result in the oven incorrectly com- 
pensating, resulting in a loss of repeatability. High levels 
of repeatability can be achieved only if all the compo- 
nents of heat transfer are maintained constant. 
LAMP DEFINITION 
The closed loop heat flux control method used in a 
Research, Inc. lamp based oven will be used as an 
example of one type of control. The primary heat source 
in this system is the tungsten filament (T3) lamp. The T3 
lamp consists of a tungsten filament encased in a sealed 
quartz envelope. The envelope is filled with an inert gas 
to keep the filament from oxidizing and failing. The 
lamps are rated for 5000 hours when operated at 100% 
capacity. In SMT applications, the lamp power never 
exceeds 20% capacity, resulting in lamp life in excess of 
20,000 hours. At typical operating setpoints of 5-15%, 
the heat transfer to the product is controlled such that 
heating rates are under 2”C/second, and the IR emission 
is in the medium to long wavelength range. 
The greatest advantage that T3 lamps have is their rapid 
response capability. Within 1 to 2 seconds after a voltage 
change occurs, the lamp is at its new temperature equi- 
librium. This rapid response is ideal for closed loop 
control, as energy can be replaced in the heating chamber 
instantly after its removal. 
CONTROL DEFINITION 
In order for the product profile to be repeatable, the total 
heat flux to the product must be held constant. The total 
heat flux to the product is the sum of IR from the lamp and 
wall plus the convective component. Refer to the figure. 
Within 1 to 2 seconds after a voltage change 
occurs, the lamp is at its new temperature 
equilibrium. This rapid response is ideal for 
closed loop control, as energy can be replaced 
in the heating chamber instantly after its 
removal. 
RAPID-RESPONSE (EXPOSED-TIP) 
THERMOCOUPLE 
PRODUCT 
”‘7 \ REFLF JON. $ RE-EMITTED IR 
VECTION 1 FLOW 
-- \P 
PRODUCT 
Accurate contol is not achieved by maintaining only one 
of the components constant, but rather the sum of all the 
thermal energies involved. The lamp IR component is 
regulated by the SCRpower controlled system. The wall 
and convective components are collectively monitored 
by the bulk chamber temperature measured with a ther- 
mocouple probe. There are two reference setpoints; 
percent voltage for the lamp, and the bulk chamber 
temperature. The bulk chamber setpoint drives the 
equation. If the chamber is at the correct temperature, 
then the lamp setpoints will be at their setpoints. If the 
chamber is too hot, then the lamps will decrease in 
intensity. If the chamber is too cool, the lamps will 
operate at a level greater than their setpoint. The lamp 
power is modified only enough to compensate for the 
bulk chamber heat transfer deviation. In doing so, the 
total heat flux to the product is maintained. The correct 
compensation will occur providing the bulk chamber 
temperature is within k 25°C. Product temperature 
repeatability off 2.5”C will occur if the bulk chamber 
is within this defined band. 
The ability to operate within this wide band has two 
significant advantages. The first is that the oven may 
be loaded down to levels up to 80% load. The second is 
that profile changeover times are reduced significantly. 
Loading may begin when all oven temperatures are 
within f 25°C of setpoint. This requires far less time to 
achieve the “ready” state than if the “ready” process 
window was f 3”C, which is often the case inreflow oven 
operation. Warm-up times of less than 15 minutes occur. 
Profile changeover times are 3 to 5 minutes for profile 
increases of under 40”C, and under 10 minutes for profile 
decreases of under 40°C. Even in the worst case of going 
from a reflow profile to an adhesive cure profile, the 
changeover time is under 15 minutes. 
Section I11 - Research, Inc. Equipment Technology 17 
--- PAGE 19 ---
IR/CONVECTION OVEN WITH NITROGEN ATMOSPHERE 
PREHEAT TOP (IR1) 
Infrared ovens do not require high quantities of flow to 
accomplish reflow. The predominant heat transfer oc- 
curs with IR, which does not require any flow to transfer 
the heat. The flow in the oven is used to provide some of 
the benefits of convection, which includes improving 
populated board uniformity and volatile removal. The 
amount of flow in the oven is more related to the quantity 
required to accomplish a high purity nitrogen environ- 
ment, which is considerably less than in the case of a 
convection oven. 
REFLOW 
TOP (IR5) DRY TOP (IR3) PREFLOW TOP (IR4) 
NITROGEN OVEN DESCRIPTION 
The 4470XN from Research, Inc. is an example of an IR 
dominant oven that provides a high purity nitrogen 
environment at low flow levels. The system uses a 
proprietary gas flow distribution method through the 
chamber walls to uniformly blanket the chamber with the 
process nitrogen. A slight positive pressure inside the 
chamber helps minimize external room effects and helps 
keep oxygen out of the chamber. Entry and exit purge 
sections are present to provide a nitrogen curtain at the 
chamber entrance and exit, which also assists in keeping 
oxygen out of the chamber. Flow meter controlled 
venturi exhausts are used to balance the flow in the 
system and to remove process volatiles. 
PREHEAT BOTTOM (IR2) 
The gas system is non-recirculatory, in that the gas is 
used once and then expended. This has the advantage 
that process contaminants are not recirculated which 
helps maintain high nitrogen purity levels. The heat 
chamber is accessible by unfastening six clamps and 
elevating the top heater vertically through the use of a 
crank mechanism. Purity levels of 20 PPM (over in- 
coming purity level) are attainable in all heating zones. 
Flow rates are in the 1200 to 1600 cubic feet per hour 
(34 to 45 cubic meters per hour) range. Machines in the 
field are experiencing total purity levels of 10-15 PPM 
(including incoming) at flow rates of 1300 cubic feet per 
hour (37 cubic meters per hour). These purity levels are 
measured with the machine fully loaded with product. 
REFLOW 
BOTTOM (1R6) DRY BOTTOM (IR3) PREFLOW BOTTOM (IR4) 
~~~ ~ 
The amount of flow in the oven is more 
related to the quantity required to accom- 
plish a high purity nitrogen environment, 
which is considerably less than in the case 
of a convection oven. 
NOTE: VENTURI EXHAUSTS ARE ACTIVATED BY COMPRESSED AIR, 
ALL OTHERS MAY BE NITROGEN OR COMPRESSED AIR. 
18 Section I11 - Research, Inc. Equipment Technology 
--- PAGE 20 ---
EDGE CONVEYOR 
Proper design of the edge conveying system is critical, 
as typically only 0.17 inches (4 mm) is in contact with 
the bottom side edges of the product. If the conveyor 
has lateral warpage of greater than this amount, the 
product will fall into the oven. Thus, edge conveyor 
straightness is a key issue in SMT processing. 
As the conveyor rails heat during the machine warm-up 
period, they will grow and tend to warp. The patented 
system from Research, Inc. shown below tensions the 
rails, which pulls the rail assembly straight. The lever 
(outlined in dark) is attached to the rail. The bottom side 
of the lever is attached to an adjustable spring mechanism 
that runs from end to end in the machine. Approximately 
1500 lbs (681 kg) of tensioning force is applied to each 
rail to maintain straightness. The machine frame is made 
of welded structural tubing in order to maintain its 
structural integrity. 
The use of the tensioning system allows the mass of the 
rails to be maintained at a reasonably low value, which 
minimizes the thermal affect of the rail on the product. 
As the conveyo’r rails heat during the ma- 
chine warm-up period, they will grow and 
tend to warp. The patented system from 
Research, Inc. shown below tensions the 
rails, which pulls the rail assembly straight. 
- TENSION STRAIGHTENS RAIL 
SPRING MAINTAINS TENSION 
REFERENCES 
1. “The Transformation of American Industry”, Productivity-Quality Systems, Inc. Module #1, page 3, 1986. 
2. “Radiation Plus Convection: The Total Solution”, Norman R. Cox, Research Inc., U.S.A., NEPCON West 1990. 
3. “Optimization of Solder Reflow with IR”, Norman R. Cox, Research, Inc., U.S.A., ISHM 1985. 
4. “Inert 1R Reflow: The Significance of Oxygen Concentration in the Atmosphere”, Colin Lea, National Physics 
Laboratory, Teddington, U.K., Surface Mount International, 199 I. 
Educational Publishing, Inc., page 3 I. 
5. Managerial and Engineering Economy, George A. Taylor, D. Van Nostrand Company, 0 1975 by Litton 
Section I11 - Research, Inc. Equipment Technology 19 
--- PAGE 21 ---
PRODUCT MATRIX 
4470MP 4470XP 
36 96 
N/A 120 
91 4 2438 
3048 
9-1 2 24-32 
30-40 
20-30 60-80 
76-1 02 
X X 
X X 
FEATURE I 4440 4470HP 
114 
138 
2895 
3505 
30-40 
36-48 
70-100 
90-1 20 
X 
X 
PROCESS AREA 


📁 Working directory: /app
🐍 Python interpreter: /usr/local/bin/python
✅ Exit code: 0