Tool: terminal
Result:
cd /root && python3 <<'EOF'
import fitz
# Check paper 2 acknowledgements more thoroughly
doc = fitz.open('paper2.pdf')
print(doc[2].get_text())
doc.close()
EOF
3. Experiments
3.1. Experimental tasks
To fully investigate the proposed corpora, we conduct three
tasks in this work, including:
• Direct SVS: This task involves direct SVS using the pro-
posed corpora, where we evaluate the performance of dif-
ferent SVS models.
We opt for two emblematic mod-
els from ESPnet-Muskits [16], namely Xiaoice [5] and
VISinger2 [10].
These models represent the two-stage
SVS model (Xiaoice, comprising an acoustic model and a
vocoder) and the end-to-end SVS model (VISinger2), respec-
tively. Given VISinger2’s superior performance comapred to
Xiaoice, it is selected for subsequent tasks.
• Transfer learning: This task leverages the pre-trained model
from ACE-Opencpop, utilizing its substantial data volume
(around 130 hours), to implement transfer learning on other
smaller-scale singing synthesis benchmarks. We evaluate this
in two contexts: an in-domain transfer (ACE-Opencpop to
Opencpop) and an out-of-domain transfer (ACE-Opencpop
to Kiritan). The latter presents a significant domain shift,
with ACE-Opencpop centered on Mandarin Pop songs and
Kiritan on Japanese Animation songs. This task also includes
a comparative analysis with SVS systems trained exclusively
on the original datasets.
• Joint training: In the joint training task, we merge the pro-
posed corpus with other established SVS benchmarks, using
it as an augmentation resource to enrich the training data. The
original KiSing study [16] highlighted difficulties in synthe-
sizing high-quality singing voices with the database. This
is due in particular to the prevalent use of the melisma tech-
nique, which is also examined in Section 2.3. In this research,
we aim to assess how our data curation approach for KiSing
(i.e., the generated corpus, ACE-KiSing) can address these
challenges. By incorporating ACE-KiSing for supplemen-
tary training alongside the original KiSing corpus, we intend
to enhance the model’s learning experience and improve its
performance. The effectiveness of this task is evaluated using
the original KiSing test set, providing a measure of how our
proposed corpus influences the quality of SVS (especially in
contexts where complex vocal techniques like melisma are
involved).
3.2. Experimental model details
As mentioned in Section 3.1,
we use Xiaoice [5] and
VISinger2 [10] for the experiments:
• Xiaoice: The Xiaoice model follows the XiaoiceSing2 [31]
by using conformer blocks [32, 33] in both the encoder and
decoder. Additionally, voice/unvoiced and log F0 prediction
losses are added along with the Mel spectrogram prediction.
For multi-singer SVS, the singer ID embedding is repeated
along the time axis and concatenated with the hidden states
before feeding to the decoder. The training and network hy-
perparameters align with the Xiaoice configuration detailed
in the Opencpop recipe.4 A HiFi-GAN vocoder, pre-trained
for 250k steps on the relevant corpora, is used for voice gen-
eration, with parameters sourced from the ParallelWaveGAN
repository.5
4https://github.com/espnet/espnet/blob/master/egs2/
opencpop/svs1
5https://github.com/kan-bayashi/ParallelWaveGAN/
blob/master/egs/opencpop/voc1/conf/hifigan.v1.yaml
Table 2: Direct SVS of ACE-Opencpop. 95% confidence inter-
vals of MOS are presented in parentheses. G.T.# are test sam-
ples in ACE-Opencpop test set. Source G.T. stands for the same
singing phrases from the original Opencpop test set.
Model
MCD ↓
S. Acc. ↑
F0 RMSE ↓
SECS ↑
MOS ↑
Xiaoice
5.81
64.33
0.162
0.75
3.53 (± 0.05)
VISinger2
5.08
65.19
0.140
0.78
3.81 (± 0.05)
G.T.#
-
-
-
-
4.35 (± 0.06)
Source G.T.
-
-
-
-
4.69 (± 0.06)
Table 3: Direct SVS of ACE-KiSing. 95% confidence intervals
of MOS are presented in parentheses. G.T.# are test samples in
ACE-KiSing test set. Source G.T. are the same singing phrases
from original KiSing test set.
Model
MCD ↓
S. Acc. ↑
F0 RMSE ↓
SECS ↑
MOS ↑
Xiaoice
6.10
62.93
0.199
0.77
3.29 (± 0.06)
VISinger2
5.24
64.50
0.185
0.80
3.64 (± 0.06)
G.T.#
-
-
-
-
4.49 (± 0.05)
Source G.T.
-
-
-
-
4.51 (± 0.07)
• VISinger2: This model [10] advances the VISinger [9] by in-
corporating a differentiable digital signal processing (DDSP)
vocoder. Mirroring the VITS model [34] in TTS, VISinger2
uses a conditional variational autoencoder, which is trained
alongside adversarial objectives. It processes musical score
input and employs a frame prior network with pitch predic-
tion to enhance the flow learning process. The configura-
tion for VISinger2 adheres to the specifications in ESPnet-
Muskits. To facilitate multi-singer SVS, singer ID embed-
dings are integrated as global information within the VITS
framework, affecting both the generator and discriminators.
To evaluate the models in different sampling rates, we
conduct cascaded acoustic models with the vocoder (i.e., Xi-
aoice) in 24kHz and 44.1kHz for end-to-end SVS systems (i.e.,
VISinger2).
3.3. Evaluation metrics
In our study, we conduct both objective and subjective evalu-
ations on the synthesized singing voice samples. For the ob-
jective assessment, we utilize Mel cepstral distortion (MCD),
semitone accuracy (S. Acc.), and logarithmic F0 root mean
square error (F0 RMSE) as our metrics, consistent with the stan-
dards in previous research [11, 16, 35, 36]. Given that the two
SVS models employed have different output sampling rates, we
resample all generated singing voices to 24kHz for the above
metrics calculation to ensure a fair comparison. For direct SVS
experiments, which support multi-singer synthesis, we intro-
duce an additional objective metric, speaker embedding cosine
similarity (SECS), using a pre-trained Rawnet3-based speaker
embedding extractor [37] provided by ESPnet-SPK [38].
In the subjective evaluation, we conduct a Mean Opinion
Score (MOS) test to evaluate the perceptual quality of the syn-
thesized voices. We randomly select 30 synthesized samples
from each system for this test. These samples are then eval-
uated by 30 listeners using a 5-point scale, where 1 indicates
“unreasonable singing” and 5 signifies “natural singing compa-
rable to human performance”. For all the experiments, we in-
clude ground truth (G.T.) MOS for comparison. In Direct SVS,
the G.T. from our corpora (ACE-Opencpop and ACE-KiSing) is
labeled as G.T.#. Additionally, for reference, we provide MOS
results for the source audios from the original Opencpop and
KiSing databases.
1882



📁 Working directory: /root
✅ Exit code: 0